###Systemikon Track-GOSEM Documentation
Wilfred de Vega
April 7, 2015

#Script: Gene Ontology Semantic Similarity.R (V 0.3)
This particular track will calculate Gene Ontology (GO) pairwise semantic similarity scores for a desired list of genes
and output significant pairs of genes (ie. those deemed to be semantically similar). The calculation of scores are based
on the Cellular Component and Biological Process GO terms and uses Schlicker and colleagues' Relevance method to determine
scores. Cellular Component and Biological Process GO terms are only considered for our analysis the Molecular Function terms
will likely be non-informative for our analysis and genes that participate in the same system will likely have different
molecular functions. This track relies on the GOSemSim package by Yu and colleagues, which is available in Bioconductor.

#Requirements
-List of Genes and their Entrez IDs (provided by previous track)
-R (this script is guaranteed to work in R version 3.1.2)
-GOSemSim
-Gene Ontology must exist for species of interest

#Description of Code
1. If the user does not have GOSemSim installed, the code will execute commands to install the package (and its other dependencies) 
on your system. Otherwise, the script will load the GOSemSim library to R.
2. From the list of genes, every possible pair combination will be generated and assembled in a table of two columns labelled
as "GeneA" and "GeneB".
3. Semantic similarity scores are calculated based on the Cellular Component and Biological Process categories using GOSemSim's
geneSim function.
4. Scores are appended onto the gene pair table and averages are calculated.
5. A final table is produced of gene pairs with an average semantic similarity score > 0.2. Their Entrez IDs and scores are provided.

#Issues
Currently, this code can process a gene list with 100 members in 6 minutes with 8 GB of RAM. More efficient methods of calculating
the scores should be developed as the pipeline will likely be used for gene lists much larger than this sample size.